= Google Static Maps Helper

This gem provides a simple interface to the Google Static Maps V2 API (http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/staticmaps/)


= Installation
If you haven't already, add gemcutter as a gem source
  [sudo] gem sources --add http://gemcutter.org

Then install this gem
  [sudo] gem install google_static_maps_helper


= The easiest way to generating a Google Static Maps URL

  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.url_for do
    marker :lng => 1, :lat => 2
    marker :lng => 3, :lat => 4
  end

This will return the URL for a map with these markers. Please note that if you do use this approach you have to set key, size and sensor setting.
You do this by:
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.key = 'your google key'
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.size = '300x600'
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.sensor = false

If you are on Rails you can put it in your environment configuration file and while you are there you can add the following line inside the configuration block:
  Rails::Initializer.run do |config|
    config.gem 'google_static_maps_helper', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
    ...
  end

It is also possible to create paths:

  point1 = {:lng => 1, :lat => 2}
  point2 = {:lng => 3, :lat => 4}

  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.url_for do
    path point1, point2, :color => :red, :weight => 7
  end

..and of course you can add paths and markers in the same map.


= A bit more "low-level" approach instantiating objects yourself

If you need a more flexibility you can create objects yourself. Read on to get a quick introduction of the classes in this library. 

== Marker
A marker object is, not surprisingly, representing a marker in the Google static map. It is pushed on to the Map object and used
to generate the URL for the static map. Markers which are of the same "type" (same color, label and size) are grouped together in the generated URL
so that we obey the schema of URL which Google has defined as "markers=markerStyles|markerLocation1|markerLocation2|... etc.".

=== How to build a Marker?
You uild a marker by simply sending in an object which responds to lng and lat, or by sending a Hash which has lng and lat keys.
  marker = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Marker.new(location)
  marker = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Marker.new(:lng => 1, :lat => 2)

Google's static maps supports some options on markers. You can change the color, the label and the size.
(http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/staticmaps/#MarkerStyles). You send in options as a second
parameter to the new method if you gave a location object, or include it in the hash where lng and lat is.
  marker = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Marker.new(location, :color => 'blue')
  marker = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Marker.new(:lng => 1, :lat => 2, :color => 'blue')


== Map
A Map holds many markers, paths, pluss some additional options like the size of the static map, Google key, what zoom level and center point it should be fixed to
etc. If no zoom or center point is give it will calculate the map view based on the markers or paths. You can leave markers and paths out, but then you have to supply
zoom and center. More info can be found here: http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/staticmaps/#URL_Parameters.

=== How to build a map?
When building a map object you have to supply key, sensor and size. Other options are optional.
  map = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Map.new(:key => YOUR_GOOGLE_KEY, :sensor => false, :size => '200x300')

Or, if you have set default options on GoogleStaticMapsHelper, you can skip the required keys when creating a map
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.key = 'your google key'
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.size = '300x600'
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper.sensor = false
  map = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Map.new


== Generate static map URL
With the map object made, we are ready to add some markers to it:
  map << marker
  map << another_marker << yet_another_marker << and_one_more_marker

We can now ask the map for it's URL to where we'll get the requested map from. This URL can be used as src attribute on an image tag.
  map.url

Another thing you might want to do is to override the center point and zoom level. This is done during map construction
  map = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Map.new(:key => YOUR_GOOGLE_KEY,
                                        :sensor => false,
                                        :size => '200x300',
                                        :center => '1,2',
                                        :zoom => 4)



== Paths and Polygons
It is also possible to create Paths and Polygons and to use them together with markers. To create a Path you need two Points and a Path object:
  path = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Path.new
  start_point = {:lat => 1, :lng => 2} # You can also use any object which responds to lat and lng here
  end_point = {:lat => 1, :lng => 2}
  path << start_point << end_point
  map << path
  map.url

To create a polygon you need one more point, and to set the fillcolor of the path to a valid color. Setting the fill
color is what will trigger the creation of polygons for the static map API.
  path = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Path.new(:fillcolor => :red, :weight => 3, :color => :blue)
  path << point1 << point2 << point3
  map << path
  map.url

If you feel like it, you can add points at construction time:
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Path.new(:color => :red, :points => [point1, point2])
  # ..or
  GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Path.new(point1, point2, :color => :red)


== Locations
The location class is what we wrap all our lat- and lng values in. Either it is a Marker, or points for a Path. It has a few helper methods which 
you can use to calculate distance between locations (<tt>distance_to(another_location)</tt>) and use to generate new locations based on 
distance and heading (<tt>endpoint(distance, heading)</tt>). It also have a helper method called <tt>endpoints_for_circle_with_radius</tt>
which returns locations that make up a circle around the receiving location. Some examples:

  # Create a marker object, which it's lng and lat are stored under the hood as a location object.
  # Methods which the marker itself cannot answer, like lat and lng and distance_to is delegated to the location object
  marker = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Marker(:lng => 1, :lat => 2)

  map << marker

  # Lets say we want draw a circle around our marker, with a radius of 1 kilometer.
  path = GoogleStaticMapsHelper::Path.new(:fillcolor => :blue, :points => marker.endpoints_for_circle_with_radius(1000))
  
  map << path


== TODO
* Ruby 1.9 support

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 Thorbjørn Hermansen. See LICENSE for details.
